File Formats & Libraries (#61)
campa-consortium/pals: source/libraries.md

(c:impl.libs)=
# Libraries

> PALS can also be implemented in-memory in programming languages.

Author: Maybe less confusing like this:
```suggestion
PALS can also be implemented directly in programming languages.
```

> PALS can also be implemented in-memory in programming languages.

Author: Or
```suggestion
There are reference implementations of PALS in planned/in-development in various programming languages.
```

> PALS can also be implemented in-memory in programming languages.

Reviewer: I would say `There are reference implementations of PALS parsers`

> PALS can also be implemented in-memory in programming languages.

Author: Sounds good, updated.

> We exchange PALS lattices often via text files, and PALS can also directly be implemented in-memory in object-oriented programming languages.

Author: Good point. Simplified.

## Python

The [PALS-Python](https://github.com/campa-consortium/pals-python) project implements the PALS schema in a file-agnostic way, mirrored in data objects.

PALS-Python provides interfaces to:
* generate lattices,
* write and read from/to files,
* convert files and

> * validate existing files.

Author: Maybe after `generate lattices` I could add:
* expand & evaluate expressions on lattices

> * validate existing files.

Author: updated, let me know if that makes sense/is correct pls

> * validate existing files.

Reviewer: This is good.
